---
layout: post
title: HOPE Number 9 Recap
---

Woot! I love going to HOPE, it's always packed with great people, great talks,
awesome vendors, and plenty of Club-Mate. The icing on the cake, for me, was
having the honor of being a speaker!

So much happened I'm still struggling to process it all. Where to start? Maybe
with Badges.

## Badges

The badges for this year's hope were essentially Hackerspace passports. The
idea, I suppose, was for attendees to collect stamps and get visas to certain
events (such as the keynote) as a crowd-control mechanism. Well the visa idea
failed pretty early, and it seems like some of the other groups/hackerspaces
didn't get the memo so there were only a handful of stamps/stickers around
for people to collect. For example, there was a stamp for Radio Statler,
another which you earned for buying Club-Mate, a Toool stamp you could earn
for picking a 6-pin lock, a stamp for being a speaker, and of course, we brought
the HacDC stamp for visitors to our corner of the Hackerspace Village.


## Repping HacDC

So people have probably noticed that since becoming the veepee I've been getting
serious about repping HacDC. In addition to the passport stamp, I brough up an
enormously heavy box filled with pamphlets, postcards, and stickers. A lot of
them went home with visitors, but unfortunately for my back, I also had to drag
some of them back with us afterwards. Still, I think overall HacDC was very well
represented at HOPE.


## Pirate!

So as I've chosen to continue identifying as "Ben the Pyrate" in the context of
my involvement with HacDC and Byzantium, I was of course dressed as a pirate the
whole weekend. P-)

I'm getting really comfortable in my pirate costume, though I still need a good
pair of boots to really finish the look. It does turn a few heads, but most
people found it amusing or even charming. I think the only person who was not so
amused was ITG who I smaked in the face a few times with the feather in my hat.
(Sorry!) And speaking of the hat, it got a LOT of compliments. So props to Holy
Cow for making an epic piece of headgear.


## Project Byzantium

Ok, now that I've finished that tanget, on to the meat of the matter. One of
the primary reasons I was at HOPE this year (appart from HOPE being awesome)
was for Project Byzantium. Both to present on what we've been up to, as well as
connect with other geeks and hackers who are doing work (or interested in doing
work) in the same or related fields. Our weekend was extremely productive for
both of those goals.

Our talk was presented on Saturday at 7p in the Sassaman room. It seemed to go
over pretty well with the audience, which I would estimate at being about 250
people. The presentation itself was pretty solid and I think we did a great job
with the slides this time around. The practice run at CarolinaCon definitely
helped out a lot, though we did add quite a bit of new material to this version.
Especially significant was the official release of Byzantium Linux v0.2a!
Immediately following the talk we headed back down to the Hackerspace Village in
Mezzanine where we passed out most of the 500 CDs we had pressed for this
release and helped people to setup one of the largest Byzantium networks we've
ever tested. (Also, I'd like to give a special thanks to Hackers For Charity who
took a large handful of our excess CDs to distribute at DEFCON this weekend, as
sadly none of the Byzantium team will be able to make it this year.)

As for the networking, I think that was an even bigger success than the talk
itself. Even from the first day we were being asked for interviews, getting
offers of help, and answering lots of good questions about our project and about
mesh networking in general. I think one of the most valuable connections we made
was meeting Willow Brugh of Geeks Without Bounds, an accelerator for
humanitarian projects like ours.

Also of great importance was meeting some hackers from Foulab in Montreal who
are working on Reseau Libre, a community wireless network in Montreal that is
modeled after the Freifunk project in Germany. I'm hoping that we can
collaborate with them to achive mutual interoperability like we are doing with
Commotion Wireless. As we are solving different problems in the same space,
it would be most efficient for us to work together, rather than work against
each other. I made sure they grabbed a bunch of CDs to bring back to their
space.

Judging by the number of cards we received (and I'm still sorting through) and
all the verbal offers of help I'm hoping that the pace of Byzantium development
can really kick into a new gear and with luck we can hit a beta release before
next summer. In our next couple of sprints I think we're really going to nail
down the last dangling bits of instability and start to focus more on usability,
mesh services, and appearance.

As I said before, we were interviewed by a number of journalists and as those
stories come out they will be added to our website and spammed on
Twitter/Facebook/Google+ and our mailing list. Hopefull that also helps to draw
interested and reliable developers to the project, as our limiting factor right
now is just man-hours.


## Hactivism and Humanitarianism

So I don't really like the term "hactivism", because I don't see it as being any
different from regular activism. So you used a computer, good for you. But our
project is inevitably lumped into that category because, well, we're hackers
and we're activists. Though I don't consider myself nearly as politcal as The
Doctor, the very existence of our project is inheirently a political statement.
That said, I always make a point to frame our goals from the perspective of
humanitarianism rather than political activism. Honestly, I don't feel
comfortable picking a side in a political uprising that happens half a world a
away where I can't speak the language and don't have the slightest clue about
their cultural norms or local politics. Of course I don't like the idea of a
government massacring their own people for having the audacity to think
differently, but ultimately one persons freedom-fighter is another person's
terrorist, and it's not my right to pick sides in conflict where I hold no
stake and may hold dangerous misconceptions about the vital issues.

That's why I describe Byzantium as a tool for humanitarianism rather than
activism. Byzantium is a platform to support communication, the type of
communication will be entirely up to the people who are using it, but I would
like to promote the idea of using it to save lives in situations like the
earthquake in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. And that is an issue where I can feel a
little justified in taking a side. Haitians were impacted by a natural disaster,
they asked us for help to save lives, communication and coordination of the
international releif response was complicated, in part, by a lack of reliable
communcation mediums. I can fully support trying to save victims of a natural
disaster when they ask us for help without feeling like I'm imposing my own
values where they don't necessarily belong.

But that immediate crisis is over. Which is not to say that Haitian recovery is
over, there is still a very very long way to go on that front, but the necessity
for a platform like Byzantium in the immediate wake of the earthquake has
passed. Haiti would probably not make for an ideal test bed for our project. So
why am I talking so much about it? Because while most of HOPEs talks focused on
(h)activism, primarily in the middle-east, I did happen to meet two attendees
who spent time doing humanitarian work in Haiti. Their work wasn't about being
high-tech, or using the latest and greatest hactivist tools, or subverting
oppressive technologies. It was about helping people and making a positive
difference in their lives. By any means necessary. And at the end of the day,
that's what it's really all about. Technocrats tend to miss this, but technology
itself doesn't save people. It's other people who save people. Technology is
just the means to an end. It's important to keep the bigger picture, the people
you're tying to help, in perspective. I'm hoping to keep in touch with Darren
and Christina Young, and hopefully the next time they plan a trip down to Haiti
I will be able to join them and see first-hand what it's like to do humanitarian
releif work on the front-lines. Maybe Willow will join us too.


## Picking Locks

Ok, that got really serious for a moment, so let's just snap back to something
fun. Reuven, Haxwithaxe and I had been planning to go to HOPE even before The
Doctor had suggested submitting a talk, so we had already bought our tickets
by the time we received confirmation that our talk has been accepted. This left
us with two spare tickets. One of those tickets when to Reuven's girlfriend,
who he finally convinced to come up and join us on Friday night. As for the
other one, I offered up far and wide, including to some of my IRC friends, and
it turned out that one of them had a girlfriend who was interested. That friend
happend to be Cody Brocious (aka Daeken). Daeken was over in Norway for a demo
competition, but he'll be back in the US this week to present a talk at Blackhat
on how he totally pwned a very common type of digital lock found in hotels and
other buildings all over the world. In the process, he also came up with the
best use for an Arduino that I've seen to date. So what did I do with Maria when
she came to visit me at HOPE? I showed her to the Lockpick Village and got her
started picking locks. Unsurprisingly, she picked it up very quickly and was
picking up to 5-pin plugs after only a couple hours. I believe she bought a set
of picks and I joked that she should practice picking a 6-pin lock while Daeken
is on stage at Blackhat giving his talk.

Speaking of locks, Bradford is planning to organize a locksport night at HacDC,
so if you've ever wanted to learn check the HacDC meetup periodically to see
when it gets scheduled.


## Final thoughts

There is still a lot more I could write about HOPE. I'm struggling to decompress
and sort it all out. I have a ton of business cards I need to sort through, and
an equal number of people I need to touch base before I completely forget and
lose their contact info. There were also a few people that I had hoped to see
but apparently missed. For example, I had intened to sit down with Brian Duggan
of Commotion Wireless and James Vasile of FreedomBox to talk shop on
interoperability of our projects, but never got a chance. There was just way too
much awesome going on to fit it all in, even with sleeping just 4 hours a night.
And then there's the story of the bus ride home. That's a long story, so I think
I'll just make that a separate post.

Stay tuned for "Ticket to ride the FAIL bus."

